- [Instructor] The final GitOps principle
focuses on how we control the running system
to ensure it remains in its desired state.
There are some threads between the GitOps principles.
For example, the first two principles
primarily deal with creating and managing
a desired state for the system.
They relate to how we build the system blueprints
that describe what it looks like.
The last two principles focus more
on the runtime state of the system.
They describe concepts that help ensure
the running system matches the desired state.
We've seen how automated change delivery
can apply updates to the system's runtime state,
but once those changes are applied,
how do we ensure the system stays that way?
When our system's runtime state
deviates from its desired state, this is known as drift.
There's a mismatch between the system's blueprints
and what is actually running in the system.
This is where the fourth GitOps principle
automated state control comes into play.
Operators observe the desired system state,
and they observe the running state of the system.
After comparing the two,
the operator begins to apply changes
that reconcile the drift
and converge the running state of the system
back to its desired state.
So the operator controls the runtime state
by enforcing against changes that take the system
away from its desired state.
It's easy to see the benefits here.
We establish a feedback loop to observe our system
and automatically correct any deviations
from the desired state.
It's as if a system admin
were watching the system constantly.
So you can go ahead and sleep through the night
when things go awry.
So that covers the principles behind GitOps.
You'll find these principles underlying the workflows,
practices, and tools that use the GitOps pattern,
which we'll see next.